ACCESSIBILITY POLICY  
Purpose: 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to diversity, inclusion and accessibility for persons with disabilities. 
The purpose of this policy 
is to establish policies, practices and procedures to ensure CarltonOne 
Engagement is accessible to people with disabilities in accordance with Accessibility for Ontarians with 
Disabilities Act, 2005 (the "Act"). 
Policy Statement:  
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring equal access, service, and participation for people with 
disabilities. We are committed to treating people with disabilities in a way that allows them to maintain 
their dignity and independence.  
Application: 
This policy applies to all CarltonOne Engagement employees in Ontario.  
General Principles and Practices: 
CarltonOne Engagement shall meet its duties and responsibilities under the “Act” by adhering to the 
following principles and practices: 
1. 
Communication 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to communicating with persons with disabilities in ways 
that consider their disability. 
2. 
Training of employees 
CarltonOne Engagement will provide training to all its workers regarding the provisions and ways 
to ensure accessible programs, goods, services, and workplace. 
Training will occur on an ongoing basis and whenever changes are made to relevant policies, 
practices and procedures. 
3. Assistive devices 
CarltonOne Engagement permits persons with disabilities to use their personal assistive devices 
while on its premises. 
4. 
Service animals and support persons 
 
 
 
 
CarltonOne Engagement welcomes onto its premises people with disabilities and their service 
animals and support persons upon whom persons with disabilities rely.  
5. Notice of temporary disruption 
CarltonOne Engagement will give notice of temporary disruptions to services or facilities used by 
persons with disabilities including the reason for the disruption, the anticipation of the disruption 
and any alternative facilities or services that may be available. The notice shall be posted in a 
conspicuous place on the premises. 
Procedure: 
To request accommodation or assistance for any good or service, contact CarltonOne Engagement by 
phone or email.  
1. 
Feedback process 
CarltonOne Engagement encourages feedback regarding how it provides goods and services to 
persons with disabilities.  This can be provided via the following methods: 
• 
E-mail:   
through the “Talk to us” link on our website 
                          or by e-mail:  info@carltonone.com or HumanResources@carltonone.com 
• 
Mail: 
Attn: Human Resources 
60 Columbia Way, 9th Floor 
Markham, ON L3R 0C9 
• 
Phone:   
866.451.2225 
2. Modifications to this or other policies 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to ensuring that its policies, practices and procedures are 
consistent with and promote the core principles of dignity, independence, integration and equal 
opportunity. Any policy that does not respect and promote the dignity and independence of 
persons with disabilities will be modified or removed. 
3. 
Policy Review 
CarltonOne Engagement will maintain the Accessibility Plan & Policy outlining the Company’s 
strategy to prevent and remove barriers from its workplace and to meet its requirements under 
the “Act”. 
4. 
Compliance 
Employees are expected to comply with all parts of this policy.  Failure to comply will result in 
discipline, up to and including termination for cause. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
ACCESSIBILITY PLAN 
Assistive Devices 
CarltonOne Engagement will ensure that its staff is trained and familiar with various assistive devices that 
may be used by customers with disabilities while accessing our goods or services. 
Persons with disabilities may use their own assistive devices as required when accessing goods and 
services at any CarltonOne Engagement location. 
In cases where the assistive device presents a safety concern or where accessibility might be an issue, 
other reasonable measures will be used to ensure the access of goods and services. 
Communication 
CarltonOne Engagement will communicate with people with disabilities in ways that consider their 
disability. 
 
 
 
Train employees to be aware of signs of communications problems; 
Asking the person how they would like to be communicated with; 
Communicate with person with a disability in a manner that considers his/her disability. 
Service Animals 
We welcome people with disabilities and their service animals. Service animals are allowed on the parts 
of our premises (in Ontario) that are open to the public. 
Support Persons 
If a customer with a disability is accompanied by a support person, CarltonOne Engagement will ensure 
that both persons can enter the premises and the customer will not be prevented from having full access 
to the support person. In situations where confidential information might be discussed, consent will first 
be obtained from the customer, prior to any such conversation or disclosure. 
Fees will not be charged for support persons. In the event a third party is hosting an event and charging 
fees for the event, the support person will be allowed to attend the event at their own cost, unless not 
required by the third party. 
Should this situation change in the future, we will notify customers of this through a notice posted on our 
premises and at the time of booking any appointments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notice of Temporary Disruption 
In the event of a planned or unexpected disruption to services or facilities for customers with disabilities, 
CarltonOne Engagement will notify customers promptly. CarltonOne Engagement will give notice of 
temporary disruptions to services or facilities used by persons with disabilities including the reason for 
the disruption, the anticipation of the disruption, and any alternative facilities or services that may be 
available. The notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. 
Training for Staff 
Training will be provided to all CarltonOne Engagement employees in Ontario, those that assist in 
developing policies and procedures that govern the provision of goods and services to the public, and 
others who deal with the public or other third parties on their behalf. This training will be given to all new 
employees as part of their orientation. All training records will be kept in employee files. 
Training will include: 
 
 
 
 
an overview of the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005 and the requirements of 
the customer service standard; 
how to interact and communicate with people with various types of disabilities; 
how to interact with people with disabilities who use an assistive device or require the assistance 
of a service animal or a support person; 
what to do if a person with a disability is having difficulty in accessing CarltonOne Engagement 
goods and services; 
Staff will also be trained when changes are made to this plan. 
Feedback process 
Customers who wish to provide feedback on the way CarltonOne Engagement provides goods and services 
to people with disabilities can do so by speaking with the representative whom they are dealing with, by 
contacting CarltonOne Engagement via e-mail or phone.  
All employee feedback should be directed to the Team Lead/ Supervisor/ Manager, Health and Safety, or 
Human Resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modifications to this or Other Policies 
Any policy of CarltonOne Engagement that does not respect and promote the dignity and independence 
of people with disabilities will be modified or removed. 
Providing Goods and Services to People with Disabilities 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to excellence in servicing all customers, including persons with 
disabilities. CarltonOne Engagement appreciates the difficulties that can be faced by people with 
disabilities and strives to ensure that it can provide its services in a way that minimizes those difficulties.  
Recruitment and Selection 
CarltonOne Engagement will notify its employees and the public, including internal and external job 
applicants about the availability of accommodation for applicants with disabilities in its recruitment 
processes. Where needed, accommodations for disabilities will be provided, on request, to support their 
participation in all aspects of the recruitment process. 
CarltonOne Engagement will notify candidates that accommodations are available upon request 
relation to the materials or processes to be used. 
in 
During the application process, CarltonOne Engagement will provide necessary support to the applicants. 
We will consult with the selected applicant and provide or arrange for the provision of a suitable 
accommodation in a manner that takes into account the applicant’s accessibility needs due to disability. 
Employment 
CarltonOne Engagement will inform its employees of the policies used to support employees with 
disabilities. We will provide this information to new employees as a part of their orientation. All existing 
employees will be provided with updated information on changes in accessibility policies whenever there 
is a change to existing policy.  
Accessible formats and communication support for employees 
CarltonOne Engagement will consult with the employee, on employee’s request, to provide or 
arrange for the provision and 
identify suitability of accessible formats and communication 
supports for the information that is needed to perform the employee’s job; and the information 
that is generally available to employees in the workplace.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Workplace Emergency Response Information  
CarltonOne Engagement will provide individualized workplace emergency response information 
to employees who have a disability or to the person designated to aid the employee with 
disability, 
if the disability 
is such that the 
individualized 
information 
is necessary, and the 
employer is aware of the need for accommodation due to the employee’s disability (permanent 
or temporary). 
The 
individualized workplace emergency response 
information will be reviewed when the 
employee moves to a different 
location 
in the organization; when the employee’s overall 
accommodations needs, or plans are reviewed; and when the company reviews its general 
emergency response policies. 
Individual Accommodation Plans 
CarltonOne Engagement will develop 
individual accommodation plans for employees with 
disabilities of which they have been made aware.  
CarltonOne Engagement has established the process of inquiring all employees about their 
accommodation needs during initial onboarding process through an Employee Information Form.  
There 
may 
be 
times 
where 
an 
employer 
may 
initiate 
a 
dialogue 
to 
offer 
assistance and accommodation to an employee who is clearly unwell or perceived to have a 
disability. 
The process for the development of documented individual accommodation plans will include the 
following elements: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
An employee requesting accommodation will have the opportunity to participate in the 
development of the individual accommodation plan and will be able to provide own point 
of view on the accommodation required in his/her circumstances. 
The employee will be assessed on an individual basis, based on his/her needs. 
The employer can request an evaluation by an outside medical or other expert, at the 
employer’s expense, to determine if and how accommodation can be achieved. 
The employee can request the participation of a workplace representative 
development of the accommodation plan. 
Employee’s personal information will be held confidential and will be shared only with 
the parties involved in the accommodation process. 
The frequency with which the individual accommodation plan will be reviewed and 
updated and the way it will be done. 
in the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
If an individual accommodation plan is denied, the reasons for the denial will be provided 
to the employee. 
8. 
9. 
Individual accommodation plan will be communicated to the employee by the means and 
in a format that considers the employee’s accessibility needs due to disability. 
If requested, individual accommodation plans will include any information regarding 
accessible formats and communications supports available. 
10. If 
required, 
individual accommodation plans will 
include 
individualized workplace 
emergency response information; and identify any other accommodation that is to be 
provided. 
Employee’s emergency response information will be reviewed when: 
a) 
The employee changes work locations 
b) 
Employee’s overall accommodation needs are being reviewed 
c) Organization’s general emergency response policies are being reviewed. 
Responsibilities of employer: 
 
Provide the same level of safety for all employees and visitors during evacuations. 
Following an emergency, employer’s responsibilities are: 
 
 
 
 
Call a staff meeting within 48 hours to talk about what has happened 
Acknowledge the fear, anxiety and loss workers are experiencing 
Provide information about next steps 
Inform employees on when, where, and how operations will resume, if worksite operations 
have been disrupted 
Responsibilities of employee with a disability:  
 
Be familiar with the building and the evacuation options – exits, stairwells, ramps, areas of 
refuge 
Know your workplace emergency evacuation plan 
Work with employer to select co-workers who can assist you in case of an emergency 
Participate in emergency drills 
Be aware of the emergency notification systems at the workplace 
Take responsibility for disability-specific needs, including having own personal preparedness 
kit with extra medication, extra batteries for personal assistive devices, extra tire or a tire 
repair kit for wheelchair users, and any other contingency supplies specific to the person’s 
disability 
 
 
 
 
 
Responsibilities of emergency wardens: 
 
Ensure that safe evacuation process is followed during the evacuation, and collect accurate 
information about evacuated employees and visitors 
Provide information to first responders when they arrive about the number of evacuated 
employees and visitors including people with disabilities waiting in areas of refuge and where 
they are located 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responsibilities of all employees: 
 
Follow evacuation procedure during the evacuation 
 
 
Accompany and ensure safe evacuation of persons with disabilities that an employee is 
assigned to assist 
Accompany clients or visitors an employee is with during the emergency, and ensure their 
safe evacuation 
Return to Work  
CarltonOne Engagement has a return to work policy and process in place to help employees to 
return to work when they have been absent because of their disability and they need some form 
of accommodation to return to work. Return to work plan will be appropriate for employees who 
have 
permanent, 
recurring 
or 
temporary 
disabilities 
and 
require 
disability-related 
accommodation to effectively return to work. 
Performance Management  
CarltonOne Engagement will take 
into account the accessibility needs of employees with 
disabilities, as well as individual accommodation plans, when using its performance management 
process in respect of employees with disabilities. If employee responsibilities change as a result 
of performance management process, and the employee has a disability, CarltonOne Engagement 
will 
revisit 
the employee’s 
individual accommodation plan 
to ensure 
that all necessary 
adjustments are made. 
Career Development and Advancement 
CarltonOne Engagement will take into account the accessibility needs of the employees with 
disabilities as well as any individual accommodation plans, when providing career development 
and advancement to the employees who have disabilities. 
CarltonOne Engagement will take into account what accommodations employees with disabilities 
may need to succeed elsewhere in their organizations or to take on new responsibilities in their 
current position. 
Redeployment 
CarltonOne Engagement will take into account the accessibility needs of the employees with 
disabilities as well as any individual accommodation plans, when redeploying employees who 
have disabilities. 
During the redeployment processes, CarltonOne Engagement will consider the accessibility needs 
of employees with disabilities, as well as reviewing individual accommodation plans when moving 
employees with disabilities to other jobs within the organizations, so that employees can continue 
to have their accommodation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN 
CarltonOne Engagement is committed to having an emergency plan in place to assist workers and office 
visitors to respond to any emergency. 
The Emergency Coordinator is the person who serves as the main contact person for the company in an 
emergency. The Emergency Coordinator is responsible for making decisions and following the steps 
described in this emergency response plan. 
Emergency Contact Numbers:  
Fire, Emergency, Police, Ambulance 
Poison Control 
Ministry of Labor 
Hydro 
Gas 
City of Markham 
City of Markham 
 After Hours Emergencies 
Evacuation: 
911__________ 
1-800-268-9017 
1-800-531-5551 
1-877-777-3810 
1-866-763-5427 
905-477-5530__ 
905-477-7000__ 
 
 
 
Stay calm 
The alarm will be loud, and you might find yourself feeling confused or panicked.  It is important 
to stay calm.  Do not take anything with you.  Walk quickly but do not rush or push. 
Evacuate the building by walking to the nearest emergency exit  
Locate the stairwell nearest your workstation.  Familiarize yourself with both evacuation exits in 
case you are unable to reach your designated stairwell (see office floor plan below). 
Congregate in the green space near south of the parking garage – this is our muster point (see 
image below) 
All Carlton One Engagement employees are required to meet in the field to the south of parking 
lot, as indicated in the image below. In winter, where snow cover may interfere with this 
location, move in the direction of the congregation area, ensuring that you are off the roadway 
and not under the parking garage. 
 
Wait for a headcount to be conducted 
We need to do a review to ensure everyone has been evacuated safely.   
 
Do not leave the site or re-enter building until the all clear has been given. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fire Wardens 
Fire Wardens will do a sweep of their area before exiting the building to ensure everyone is safely 
exiting and assisting anyone who might need help. 
Special Assistance 
If anyone cannot traverse the stairs, arrangements must be made ahead of time.  Please contact HR, 
Josh Lake or Philip Daly. 
CarltonOne Engagement - 60 Columbia Way, 9th Floor – Office  Floor Plan 
 
 
 
CarltonOne Engagement - 60 Columbia Way, 9th Floor – Muster Point 
 Injury: 
 
 
 
 
Have designated 1st aider attend to the injury or call 911 (as necessary) 
Ensure attendants wear gloves to protect from blood or bodily fluid if there is a chance of 
exposure 
Dispose of contaminated materials in an appropriate manner (use biohazard waste bag in first 
aid kit) 
After performing any first aid, a 1st aider must complete a First Aid Record form. 
Severe Weather (e.g. tornado): 
 
Evacuate to the location that’s away from windows and external doors, preferably near to 
concrete walls 
Await further instructions from local emergency response personnel and/or property 
management 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETURN TO WORK POLICY 
 Purpose: 
In an effort to provide a safe and healthy workplace, CarltonOne Engagement is committed to the 
prevention of workplace injury and/or illness. The Return to Work Policy has been established to 
accommodate employees’ return to work after injury, illness, and / or temporary or permanent 
disability. In the event of injury, illness, or disability, CarltonOne Engagement is committed to taking all 
reasonable steps to ensure a safe, timely return to the workplace.  
Application: 
This policy applies to all employees who are unable to perform their regular work as a result of injury, 
illness, temporary or permanent disability. All employees must fully cooperate in the safe and timely 
return to work of all injured, ill, or disabled employees. 
The program is: 
 
 
 
 
Voluntary; 
Respectful of all employees; 
Flexible; 
Specifically designed for each employee’s abilities. 
Safe and timely return to work recognizes that while an employee cannot perform the full range of 
regular duties, meaningful, productive work can be performed. We will work with affected workers to 
identify suitable work and develop individualized return to work plans based upon functional abilities 
information provided by health care providers. 
CarltonOne Engagement will undertake the accommodation of injured and disabled workers through 
reasonable accommodation. CarltonOne Engagement will assist workers in a timely and appropriate 
return to their pre-injury jobs. If this is not possible, temporary alternate or modified duties will be 
arranged, whenever possible. 
All personal information about the injured worker will be held confidential and shared only with the 
permission of the worker or by statutory requirement. 
Roles and Responsibilities: 
Worker with Disabilities 
1. 
Provide employer with regular updates on functional ability throughout recovery 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Participate in prescribed treatment and rehabilitation programs 
3. 
Assist employer to identify suitable work consistent with functional abilities specified by 
physician 
4. 
Accept suitable work when identified 
5. Work within the identified limitations and/or restrictions 
6. Work with the employer to address any concerns that may arise 
Employer 
1. 
Consider functional restrictions specified by employee’s physician when determining 
reasonable accommodation and designing the return to work plan 
2. 
Consult with the employee when designing the return to work plan 
3. 
Supervise and monitor the return to work plan 
4. Work with the employee and his/her physician to address any concerns that may arise 
5. 
Provide employee assistance program information (if applicable) 
All Workers 
1. 
Support your co-workers to help them return to work 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RETURN TO WORK PROCESS AND PLAN 
Purpose: 
Return to work process and plan are established to help employees to return to work when they have 
been absent because of their illness, injury, or disability and they need some form of accommodation to 
return to work. Return to work plan will be appropriate for employees who have permanent, recurring 
or temporary disabilities and require disability-related accommodation to effectively return to work. 
Process: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Prior to the return to work or if accommodation is required, employee has to obtain a 
completed Medical Absence Form from the physician and submit it to the manager/supervisor/ 
or team lead as well as Human Resources. This will ensure that the employer is able to evaluate 
and understand if modified work can be offered, and if so, what kind of restrictions may be 
present. The employer will work to identify the ways to reasonably accommodate the disability 
and create an individualized return to work plan.  
CarltonOne Engagement will take restrictions specified by the physician and employee input into 
consideration in reasonable accommodation of disability and finding suitable work for 
employees with disabilities. Employee is expected to work with Human Resources and 
Management on a Return to Work Plan and will sign the Modified Work Agreement once it’s 
finalized. 
Individual Return to Work plans will be monitored on an on-going basis after employee’s return 
to work, or after accommodation was requested. Following are the steps in monitoring 
employee’s return to work program: 
 
Upon the finalization of return to work plan, start with step 1 of the plan. 
 
Continue monitoring the recovery progress based on on-going evaluation by the 
healthcare provider. CarltonOne Engagement may request that employee provides 
additional, updated Medical Absence Forms completed by the physician. Monitoring 
and follow-up meetings will take place weekly/bi-weekly/ or monthly, based on the 
nature of disability and/or accommodation. 
If the disability is temporary, return to work plan will be adjusted according to the 
progress of the recovery process and physician’s recommendations. 
If the disability is permanent, reasonable accommodations will be identified and the 
return to work will be implemented. These accommodations will be in line with 
physician’s specifications of restrictions. Follow up meetings and evaluations will take 
place for any adjustments to the plan if needed.  
Restrictions can be removed only by the physician in writing. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4. 
5. 
Return to work plan can be completed when employee recovers from temporary disability. 
Restrictions can be removed only by the physician in writing.  
Identify suitable work.  
When identifying suitable work, following steps are to be followed: 
Can the worker continue to perform their pre-injury 
job without making modifications? 
No
Can the worker continue to perform their pre-injury 
job with making modifications? 
No
Can the worker perform a different job without 
making modifications? 
No
Can the worker perform a different job with 
modifications? 
No
Can alternative suitable work be identified?
No
Worker continues treatment and rehabilitation to 
increase functional abilities
YES
Yes
YES
Yes
Yes
Worker returns to pre-injury job
Worker returns to pre-injury job 
with modifications
Worker performs different job
Worker returns to pre-injury job 
with modification
Worker returns to perform these 
suitable work tasks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACCESSIBILITY FOR ONTARIANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (AODA) POLICY 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
I acknowledge that I have read and understand following CarltonOne Engamenet’s policies: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
Accessibiloity policy and plan that include information about providing goods and 
services to people with disabilities; and accomodation for applicants and employees 
with disabilities 
Emergency response plan 
Return to work policy, process, and plan 
Emergency evacuation procedure. 
Employee name 
Employee signature 
Date 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
